=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Test::Compile - Common tests to check syntax of your modules, using only core modules

=head1 VERSION

version 2.059

=head1 SYNOPSIS

In your F<dist.ini>:

    [Test::Compile]
    skip      = Test$
    fake_home = 1
    needs_display = 1
    fail_on_warning = author
    bail_out_on_fail = 1
    switch = -M-warnings=numeric    ; like "no warnings 'numeric'

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a L<Dist::Zilla> plugin that runs at the L<gather files|Dist::Zilla::Role::FileGatherer> stage,
providing a test file (configurable, defaulting to F<t/00-compile.t>).

This test will find all modules and scripts in your distribution, and try to
compile them one by one. This means it's a bit slower than loading them
all at once, but it will catch more errors.

The generated test is guaranteed to only depend on modules that are available
in core.  Most options only require perl 5.6.2; the C<bail_out_on_fail> option
requires the version of L<Test::More> that shipped with perl 5.12 (but the
test still runs on perl 5.6).

This plugin accepts the following options:

=for Pod::Coverage mvp_multivalue_args
    mvp_aliases
    register_prereqs
    gather_files
    munge_file

=head1 CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

=head2 C<filename>

The name of the generated file. Defaults to F<t/00-compile.t>

=head2 C<phase>

The phase for which to register prerequisites. Defaults
to C<test>.  Setting this to a false value will disable prerequisite
registration.

=head2 C<skip>

A regex to skip compile test for B<modules> matching it. The
match is done against the module name (C<Foo::Bar>), not the file path
(F<lib/Foo/Bar.pm>).  This option can be repeated to specify multiple regexes.

=head2 C<file>

A filename to also test, in addition to any files found
earlier.  It will be tested as a module if it ends with C<.pm> or C<.PM>,
and as a script otherwise.
Module filenames should be relative to F<lib>; others should be relative to
the base of the repository.
This option can be repeated to specify multiple additional files.

=head2 C<fake_home>

=for stopwords cpantesters

A boolean to indicate whether to fake C<< $ENV{HOME} >>.
This may be needed if your module unilaterally creates stuff in the user's home directory:
indeed, some cpantesters will smoke test your distribution with a read-only home
directory. Defaults to false.

=head2 C<needs_display>

A boolean to indicate whether to skip the compile test
on non-Win32 systems when C<< $ENV{DISPLAY} >> is not set. Defaults to false.

=head2 C<fail_on_warning>

A string to indicate when to add a test for
warnings during compilation checks. Possible values are:

=over 4

=item * C<none>: do not test for warnings

=item * C<author>: test for warnings only when AUTHOR_TESTING is set
(default, and recommended)

=item * C<all>: always test for warnings (not recommended, as this can prevent
installation of modules when upstream dependencies exhibit warnings in a new
Perl release)

=back

=head2 C<bail_out_on_fail>

A boolean to indicate whether the test will BAIL_OUT
of all subsequent tests when compilation failures are encountered. Defaults to false.

=head2 C<module_finder>

=for stopwords FileFinder

This is the name of a L<FileFinder|Dist::Zilla::Role::FileFinder> for finding
modules to check.  The default value is C<:InstallModules>; this option can be
used more than once.  F<.pod> files are always skipped.

Other predefined finders are listed in
L<Dist::Zilla::Role::FileFinderUser/default_finders>.
You can define your own with the
L<[FileFinder::ByName]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::FileFinder::ByName> and
L<[FileFinder::Filter]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::FileFinder::Filter> plugins.

=head2 C<script_finder>

=for stopwords executables

Just like C<module_finder>, but for finding scripts.  The default value is
C<:PerlExecFiles> (when available; otherwise C<:ExecFiles>)
-- see also L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::ExecDir>, to make sure these
files are properly marked as executables for the installer.

=head2 C<xt_mode>

When true, the default C<filename> becomes F<xt/author/00-compile.t> and the
default C<dependency> phase becomes C<develop>.

=head2 C<switch>

Use this option to pass a command-line switch (e.g. C<-d:Confess>, C<-M-warnings=numeric>) to the command that
tests the module or script. Can be used more than once.  See L<perlrun> for more on constructing these switches.

=head1 RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT OPTIONS

If the environment variable C<$PERL_COMPILE_TEST_DEBUG> is set to a true option when the test is run, the command
to test each file will be printed as a C<diag>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<Test::NeedsDisplay>

=item *

L<Test::Script>

=back

=head1 GIVING THANKS

=for stopwords MetaCPAN GitHub

If you found this module to be useful, please show your appreciation by
adding a +1 in L<MetaCPAN|https://metacpan.org/dist/Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Test-Compile>
and a star in L<GitHub|https://github.com/karenetheridge/Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Test-Compile>.

=head1 SUPPORT

Bugs may be submitted through L<the RT bug tracker|https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Test-Compile>
(or L<bug-Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Test-Compile@rt.cpan.org|mailto:bug-Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Test-Compile@rt.cpan.org>).

There is also a mailing list available for users of this distribution, at
L<http://dzil.org/#mailing-list>.

There is also an irc channel available for users of this distribution, at
L<C<#distzilla> on C<irc.perl.org>|irc://irc.perl.org/#distzilla>.

=head1 AUTHORS

=over 4

=item *

Jérôme Quelin <jquelin@gmail.com>

=item *

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=back

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=for stopwords Ahmad M. Zawawi Olivier Mengué Kent Fredric David Golden Graham Knop Jesse Luehrs Randy Stauner Harley Pig Chris Weyl fayland Marcel Gruenauer Peter Shangov Ricardo SIGNES

=over 4

=item *

Ahmad M. Zawawi <ahmad.zawawi@gmail.com>

=item *

Olivier Mengué <dolmen@cpan.org>

=item *

Kent Fredric <kentnl@cpan.org>

=item *

David Golden <dagolden@cpan.org>

=item *

Graham Knop <haarg@haarg.org>

=item *

Jesse Luehrs <doy@tozt.net>

=item *

Randy Stauner <rwstauner@cpan.org>

=item *

Harley Pig <harleypig@gmail.com>

=item *

Chris Weyl <cweyl@alumni.drew.edu>

=item *

fayland <fayland@gmail.com>

=item *

Marcel Gruenauer <hanekomu@gmail.com>

=item *

Peter Shangov <pshangov@yahoo.com>

=item *

Ricardo SIGNES <rjbs@cpan.org>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2009 by Jérôme Quelin.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
